---
title:  "VizSec 2015 Call for Papers"
date:   2015-06-15 
author: Nicolas Prigent 
---

The 12th IEEE Symposium on Visualization for Cyber Security (VizSec) is a 
forum that brings together researchers and practitioners from academia, 
government, and industry to address the needs of the cyber security community 
through new and insightful visualization and analysis techniques. 
VizSec provides an excellent venue for fostering greater exchange and new 
collaborations on a broad range of security- and privacy-related topics. 
VizSec will be held in Chicago, Illinois, USA in conjunction with IEEE VIS.

The purpose of VizSec is to explore effective and scalable visual interfaces 
for security domains such as network security, computer forensics, reverse 
engineering, insider threat detection, cryptography, privacy, user assisted 
attacks prevention, compliance management, wireless security, secure coding, 
and penetration testing.

### Technical Papers

Full papers describing novel contributions in security visualization are 
solicited. Papers may present techniques, applications, practical experience, 
theory, analysis, experiments, or evaluations. We encourage the submission 
of papers on technologies and methods that promise to improve cyber security 
practices, including, but not limited to:

 - Situation awareness and/or understanding
 - Incident handling including triage, exploration, correlation, and response
 - Computer forensics
 - Recording and reporting results of investigations
 - Assisting proactive security configuration and deployment
 - Reverse engineering and malware analysis
 - Vulnerability management
 - Multiple data source analysis
 - Analyzing information requirements for computer network defense
 - Evaluation and/or user testing of VizSec systems
 - Criteria for assessing the effectiveness of cyber security visualizations 
   (whether from a security goal perspective or a human factors perspective)
 - Modeling system and network behavior
 - Modeling attacker and defender behavior
 - Studying risk and impact of cyber attacks
 - Predicting future attacks or targets
 - Security metrics and education
 - Software security
 - Mobile application security
 - Social networking privacy and security

<br/> 
When applicable, visualization and interaction techniques that effectively 
capture the insights of human analysts and/or allow analysts to collaborate 
efficiently are particularly desirable.

### Posters

Poster submissions may showcase late-breaking results, work in progress, 
preliminary results, or visual representations relevant to the VizSec 
community. The poster program will be a great opportunity for the authors to 
interact with the attendees and solicit feedback. Accepted poster abstracts 
will be made available on this website.


### Tests and Evaluation

When applicable, submissions including tests and evaluations of the proposed 
tools and techniques are considered particularly desirable. If possible, 
making the data used for the tests available will also be considered 
positively. If you do not have real-world data to demonstrate your 
visualization, you may be interested in looking at the VAST Challenge 
data sets.


### Submissions

The VizSec 2015 proceedings will be published by IEEE. Submissions must be 
formated using the IEEE VGTC template that can be found at 
[http://junctionpublishing.org/vgtc/Tasks/camera.html](http://junctionpublishing.org/vgtc/Tasks/camera.html).

Papers should be at most 8 pages including the bibliography and appendices. 
Committee members are not required to read the appendices or any pages past 
the maximum. Submissions not meeting these guidelines will be rejected 
without consideration of their merit. Reviews are single-blind, so authors may
include names and affiliations in their submissions. Submitted papers must 
not substantially overlap papers that have been published or that are 
simultaneously submitted to a journal or a conference with proceedings. 
Authors of accepted papers must guarantee that their papers will be presented 
at the conference.

Submit papers and poster abstracts using EasyChair: 
[http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=vizsec2015](http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=vizsec2015)

### Important Dates

All deadlines are 5:00 PM PST

**Papers**

- August 1, 2015: 
	- Submission for Papers
- September 5, 2015
	- Author Notification for Papers
- September 19, 2015
	- Camera Ready Submission and Copyright Forms for Papers

**Posters**

- September 19, 2015
	- Abstract Submission for Posters
- September 26, 2015
	- Author Notification for Poster
